As mentioned in a previous clip,
Spring automatically maps values in the scopes claim into granted
authorities and prefixes them with a capital SCOPE_.
So let's also require access to support /admin for
clients with a scope named support‑admin.
Now, to achieve this,
we use the access method where we can write a Spring expression.
Okay, if we restart the application, and log in as Victoria,
and then access the Admin section, boom,
403 unauthorized.
The reason for that is she has the role of admin,
but the client doesn't have the approved scope to
perform this task on her behalf.
So let's go back to the Keycloak admin console,
under Client Scopes, let's create that scope,
support‑admin.
Then for our client, crypto‑portfolio, under Client Scopes,
we can add it as a default or even optional.
Now,
optional would mean that the client would actually have to
request that scope in the authorization request.
I'll add it as default though.
Now, if we relog back in as Victoria,
you can see the access token now has the new scope,
and Victoria can now access the Admin section.
Now, you're probably thinking, now, what's the purpose of checking this scope?
Well, in the demo, as it stands, none really.
But in the future,
we could have multiple clients for the crypto‑portfolio application,
so perhaps a mobile front‑end client or a single page application version.
And for those clients, we might not want them to perform any admin functions,
so we can simply not include the support‑admin scope for those clients. And
even if a user who is an administrator is using them,
they will not have the authority to perform admin functions. So it's a kind of a nice separation of concerns. But next, let's wrap up.